.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.TH adda 1 "25 Apr, 2001" parted "GNU Parted Manual"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
GNU Parted \- a partition manipulation program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B parted
[options] [device [command [options]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR parted
command.  Complete documentation is distributed with the package.
.PP
.B parted
is a disk partitioning and partition resizing program.  It allows you to
create, destroy, resize, move and copy ext2, FAT and FAT32 partitions.
This is useful for creating space for new operating systems,
reorganising disk usage, and copying data to new hard disks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
displays a help message
.TP
.B -i, --interactive
where necessary, prompts for user intervention
.TP
.B -s, --script
never prompts for user intervention
.TP
.B -v, --version
displays the version
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B [device]
The block device to partition.
.TP
.B [command [options]]
Specifies a command to parted. If no command is given, parted will give you
a command prompt. Commands are:
.RS
.TP
.B check \fIpartition\fP
does a simple check on \fIpartition\fP
.TP
.B cp \fI[source-device]\fP \fIsource\fP \fIdest\fP
copies the \fIsource\fP partition's filesystem on \fIsource-device\fP (or the
current device if no other device was specified) to the \fIdest\fP
partition on the current device
.TP
.B help \fI[command]\fP
prints general help, or help on \fIcommand\fP if specified
.TP
.B mklabel \fIlabel-type\fP
creates a new disklabel (partition table). For \fIlabel-type\fP, currently
only "msdos" is supported
.TP
.B mkfs \fIpartition\fP \fIfs-type\fP
make a filesystem \fIfs-type\fP on \fIpartition\fP. \fIfs-type\fP can be one
of "FAT", "ext2" or "linux-swap"
.TP
.B mklabel \fIlabel-type\fP
Creates a new disklabel of type \fIlabel-type\fP on the current device.
\fIlabel-type\fP should be one of "bsd", "loop", "mac", "msdos", "pc98" or
"sun"
.TP
.B mkpart \fIpart-type\fP \fI[fs-type]\fP \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
make a \fIpart-type\fP partition with filesystem \fIfs-type\fP (if specified),
beginning at \fIstart\fP and ending at \fIend\fP (in megabytes).
\fIpart-type\fP should be one of "primary", "logical" or "extended"
.TP
.B mkpartfs \fIpart-type\fP \fIfs-type\fP \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
make a \fIpart-type\fP partition with filesystem \fIfs-type\fP beginning at
\fIstart\fP and ending at \fIend\fP (in megabytes)
.TP
.B move \fIpartition\fP \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
move \fIpartition\fP to start at \fIstart\fP and end at \fIend\fP. Note: move
never changes the minor number
.TP
.B name \fIpartition\fP \fIname\fP
set the name of \fIpartition\fP to \fIname\fP. This option works only on Mac
and PC98 disklabels. The name can be placed in quotes, if necessary
.TP
.B print
displays the partition table
.TP
.B quit
exits parted
.TP
.B resize \fIpartition\fP \fIstart\fP \fIend\fP
resize the filesystem on \fIpartition\fP to start at \fIstart\fP and end at
\fIend\fP megabytes
.TP
.B rm \fIpartition\fP
deletes \fIpartition\fP
.TP
.B select \fIdevice\fP
choose \fIdevice\fP as the current device to edit. \fIdevice\fP should usually
be a Linux hard disk device, but it can be a partition, software raid device or
a LVM logical volume if that is necessary
.TP
.B set \fIpartition\fP \fIflag\fP \fIstate\fP
change the state of the \fIflag\fP on \fIpartition\fP to \fIstate\fP. Flags
supported are: "boot", "root", "swap", "hidden", "raid", "lvm", "lba" and
"hp-service".
\fIstate\fP should be either "on" or "off"
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <bug-parted@gnu.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
USER manual.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Timshel Knoll <timshel@pobox.com>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
